ESOC300 - Digital Storytelling and Culture : This course will lay a foundation for understanding how stories shape communities, identities, memories, and perspectives on our lives. In addition, this course will provide opportunities for the theoretical analysis of self representation, composite narratives on behalf of others, cultural heritage, and memories as they are preserved and performed within stories and through narrative. Influences on digital digital storytelling such as the sociocultural context, the institutional contexts of production the audience, and the needs or goals of the digital storyteller will be examined. Students will be required to call on their own intellectual, emotional, and imaginative processes, as well as to develop their own skills in digital storytelling, interviewing, oral history collection, and the use of relevant digital storytelling tools. : 3
ESOC340 - Information, Multimedia Design & the Moving Image : We are living in a time when nearly everyone has the means to make movies, music and photos using just their own personal tools like smartphones, iPads, and similar mobile gadgets. This course will develop and refine skills and understanding of multimedia in contemporary culture. Offering a survey of innovative works in film and information arts, this course will allow students a hands-on opportunity to respond to concepts covered in class using self-produced media. This course will address how information functions in time-based forms of multimedia and video in this era of interactive information and displays. Drawing on historical precedents in the media and computational arts, this course focuses on both linear and non-linear approaches of using image, sound and text to create critical and creative works that function in a the context of social media and our contemporary digital society. How and why do certain images, music or films affect us so profoundly? We will address this question through a study of the components of media literacy that include: Production, Language, Representation, and Audience. These concepts will be examined through a cross-section of writers including: Marshall McLuhan, John Berger and Susan Sontag. : 3
ISTA301 - Computing and the Arts : This course examines the ways in which computing and information science support and facilitate the production and creation of art in current society. A particular focus of the course will be to discuss how artists have used advances in technology and computing capacity to explore new ways of making art, and to investigate the relationships between technical innovation and the artistic process. : 3
ISTA302 - Technology of Sound : This course will provide the student with the information and experience necessary for the creation and manipulation of digital audio. Students will have the opportunity to experience the music-making process with the technology tools and techniques that are common in both home and professional studios. The class will make use of a variety of software packages designed for contemporary music production, explaining the universal techniques and concepts that run through all major software programs. Topics will include musical analysis, MIDI control, synthesis techniques, audio editing, and audio mixing. Lab assignments will emphasize hands-on experience working with musical hardware and software to provide the necessary skills to create music based on today's musical styles. The course provides the foundation for further study, creative applications, and personal expression. : 3
ISTA303 - Introduction to Creative Coding : While the 20th Century saw the rise of the knowledge worker and the information worker, the 21st Century has ushered in the era of the creative professional. Our society is being rapidly transformed by new technologies that are revolutionizing many spheres of life, from entrepreneurship to artistic production. This course provides an introduction to software and hardware packages that are spurring innovation and creativity. Students will explore rapid prototyping, object design, and physical computing using Computer-Aided Design Software, 3D printing technology, and Arduino circuit boards. The Processing programming language will be introduced in this course and used to create generative artworks in both visual and audio idioms. An overview of creative evolutionary computation will survey applications of genetic algorithms and artificial intelligence for creating art. : 3
ISTA329 - Introduction to Web Design and Development : An introduction to web design and development, with an emphasis on client-side technologies. Topics include HTML, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), JavaScript, and web design best practices. : 3
ISTA352 - Images: Past, Present, and Future : A significant portion of the human brain is devoted to understanding spatial data and its relation to the world. Through the ages humans have naturally developed external representations of such information for communication, planning, understanding, and entertainment. Further, the digital age has led to an explosion of images available to everyone in forms that are convenient to share, manipulate, and automatically mine for information. In this thematic course we will study images from perspectives that transcend disciplines, and applicable to many of them, including the arts, science and biomedicine, computational intelligence, geography, and security. We will study what images are, how images are stored and distributed, the reproduction of images, how they can be manipulated, using images for visualization, and extracting semantics from images. : 3
ISTA401 - Installation Design : This course is a hands-on, project-based approach to understanding and designing art installations. Enrollees will learn principles, tools, and techniques of rapid prototyping and installation design, and will collaborate to design and implement a large-scale installation by the end of the semester. The course lectures will also provide an overview of the history, theory, and aesthetics of installation art. : 3
ISTA403 - Creative Coding : This course continues the exploration of creative coding that began in ISTA 303. Students will develop experimental and creative works based, in part, on techniques from the fields of human-computer interaction, computer vision, virtual reality, machine learning, and other disciplines that have the potential to impact our culture through the introduction of new technologies. Aside from gaining technical proficiencies needed to engage with these topics (e.g., software engineering, physical computing techniques, familiarity with multimedia packages and libraries), students will have the opportunity to explore the use of novel interaction devices (e.g., Kinect, Wii, LeapMotion, Glasses, and Oculus Rift) as well as to experiment with a range of digital media environments (e.g., projection mapping, live coding, sonification, mobile devices, physical sensors,augmented reality, immersive systems). Moreover, students will become more familiar with the history and current state of the fields of new media art and creative coding. Students will read widely from journal articles and from media arts conference and festival proceedings, and will be expected to document their own work in a clear, professional manner, both through writing assignments and the creation of an online portfolio of creative projects. By the end of this course students will have the ability to participate meaningfully (through the implementation and documentation of creative projects) in contemporary discourse regarding art and technology. : 3
