ESOC414 - Computational Social Science : This course will introduce you to the burgeoning methodological subfield called computational social science: An evolving bundle of computationally sophisticated techniques that are increasingly used to answer research questions in the social sciences. The goal of the course is for you to learn how to produce your own computational social science research project aimed at a scholarly outlet. The course will survey the latest published research and train you in research design, methods, and techniques in computational social science. This might include topics such as Big Data, data visualization, social network analysis, agent-based modeling, and natural language processing, as well as identifying and developing variables, mechanisms, and research questions motivated by social science research. The course will also delve into the growing ethical challenges and considerations associated with computational social science research. The course is set up to welcome people from many different backgrounds, in particular those with or without prior exposure to programming, statistics, or the social sciences. : 3
ISTA311 - Foundation of Information and Inference : An introduction to the mathematical theories of probability and information as tools for inference, decision-making, and efficient communication. Topics include discrete and continuous random variables, measures of information and uncertainty, discrete time/discrete state Markov chains, elements of Bayesian inference and decision-making, Bayesian and Maximum Likelihood parameter estimation, and elementary coding theory. : 3
ISTA320 - Applied Data Visualization : This course will introduce students to the fundamental concepts and tools used to convey the information contained within large, complex data sets through a variety of visualization techniques. Students will learn the fundamentals of data exploration data via visualizations, how to manipulate and reshape data to make it suitable for visualization, and how to prepare everything from simple single-variable visualizations to large multi-tiered and interactive visualizations. Visualization theory will be presented alongside the technical aspect of the course to develop a holistic understanding of the topic. : 3
ISTA321 - Data Mining and Discovery : This course will introduce students to the theory and practice of data mining for knowledge discovery. This includes methods developed in the fields of statistics, large-scale data analytics, machine learning and artificial intelligence for automatic or semi-automatic analysis of large quantities of data to extract previously unknown interesting patterns. Topics include understanding varieties of data, classification, association rule analysis, cluster analysis, and anomaly detection. We will use software packages for data mining, explaining the underlying algorithms and their use and limitations. The course include laboratory exercises, with data mining case studies using data from biological sequences and networks, social networks, linguistics, ecology, geo-spatial applications, marketing and psychology. : 3
ISTA322 - Data Engineering : This course will be inviting for a wide variety of students from across disciplines, and they will learn how to use industry standard tools and practices to make large data sets usable for scientists and other decision makers. From data collection and preparation, to the creation of big data stores, databases, or systems to make data flow, this course will focus on the practical work needed to prepare big data for analyses across contexts. Students will be introduced to a variety of technical tools for data management, storage, use, and manipulation. : 3
ISTA331 - Principles and Practice of Data Science : ISTA 331 explores the ideas and techniques that businesspersons and scientists alike use to exploit data in order to create knowledge and make money. Topics and projects may include recommender systems (which powered Amazon's rise to global retail dominance), spam filters (the first machine learning application that affected our daily lives), topic extraction from documents, and an introduction to neural networks. : 3
ISTA350 - Programming for Informatics Applications : This course will provide an introduction to informatics application programming using the python programming language and applying statistical concepts from a first semester statistics course. A key goal of this course is to prepare students for upper division ISTA courses by expanding on the skills gained in ISTA 116 and 130 but will be broadly applicable to any informatics discipline. Throughout the semester students will be faced with information application problems drawn from several different disciplines in order to expand their breadth of experience while simultaneously increasing their depth of knowledge of scientific and informatics programming methods. Students will practice problem decomposition and abstraction, gaining experience in identifying commonly occurring information processing issues and in applying well-known solutions. In addition, students will design their own algorithmic solutions to problems and will learn how to effectively compare different solutions, evaluating efficiency in order to choose the best solution for a given problem. Periodic code reviews will be held in order to expose students to a range of different solution methods, which will aid them in discovering weaknesses in their own work and will improve their ability to communicate with others on technical topics. The course will include an introduction to the python scientific computing libraries and other statistical packages. Additional course topics will include the use of version control systems, software profiling, general software engineering practices and basic shell scripting. : 4
ISTA355 - Introduction to Natural Language Processing : Natural language processing (NLP) is the study of how we can teach computers to use language by extracting knowledge from text, and then use that knowledge in some meaningful way. In this introductory course, we will examine the fundamental components on which natural language processing systems are built, including frequency distributions, part of speech tagging, syntactic parsing, semantics and analyzing meaning, search, introductory information and relation extraction, and structured knowledge resources. We will also examine pragmatic concerns in processing raw text from real-world sources. : 3
ISTA410 - Bayesian Modeling and Inference : Bayesian modeling and inference is a powerful modern approach to representing the statistics of the world, reasoning about the world in the face of uncertainty, and learning about it from data. It cleanly separates the notions of representation, reasoning, and learning. It provides a principled framework for combining multiple source of information such as prior knowledge about the world with evidence about a particular case in observed data. This course will provide a solid introduction to the methodology and associated techniques, and show how they are applied in diverse domains ranging from computer vision to molecular biology to astronomy. : 3
ISTA421 - Introduction to Machine Learning : Machine learning describes algorithms which can modify their internal parameters (i.e., \"learn\") to recognize patterns and make decisions based on examples or through interaction with the environment. This course will introduce the fundamentals of machine learning, will describe how to implement several practical methods for pattern recognition, feature selection, clustering, and decision making for reward maximization, and will provide a foundation for the development of new machine learning algorithms. : 3
ISTA429 - Applied Cyberinfrastructure Concepts : Students will learn from experts from projects that have developed widely adopted foundational Cyberinfrastrcutrue resources, followed by hands-on laboratory exercises focused around those resources. Students will use these resources and gain practical experience from laboratory exercises for a final project using a data set and meeting requirements provided by domain scientists. Students will be provided access to computer resources at: UA campus clusters, iPlant Collaborative and at NSF XSEDE. Students will also learn to write a proposal for obtaining future allocation to large scale national resources through XSEDE. : 3
ISTA431 - Data Warehousing and Analytics in the Cloud : Data Warehousing and Analytics In the Cloud will utilize concepts, frameworks, and best practices for designing a cloud-based data warehousing solution and explore how to use analytical tools to perform analysis on your data. In the first half of the course, I will provide an overview of the field of Cloud Computing, its main concepts, and students will get hands-on experience through projects which utilize cloud computing platforms. In the second half of the course, we will examine the construction of a cloud-based data warehouse system and explore how the Cloud opens up data analytics to huge volumes of data. : 3
ISTA439 - Statistical Natural Language Processing : This course introduces the key concepts underlying statistical natural language processing. Students will learn a variety of techniques for the computational modeling of natural language, including: n-gram models, smoothing, Hidden Markov models, Bayesian Inference, Expectation Maximization, Viterbi, Inside-Outside Algorithm for Probabilistic Context-Free Grammars, and higher-order language models. : 3
ISTA450 - Artificial Intelligence : The methods and tools of Artificial Intelligence used to provide systems with the ability to autonomously problem solve and reason with uncertain information. Topics include: problem solving (search spaces, uninformed and informed search, games, constraint satisfaction), principles of knowledge representation and reasoning (propositional and first-order logic, logical inference, planning), and representing and reasoning with uncertainty (Bayesian networks, probabilistic inference, decision theory). : 3
ISTA455 - Applied Natural Language Processing : Most of the data available on the web or managed by institutions and businesses consists of unstructured text. Natural language processing tools help to organize such texts, extract relevant information from them, and automatize time-consuming processes. This course will teach the fundamental knowledge necessary to design and develop end-to-end natural language understanding applications, drawn from examples such as question answering, sentiment analysis, information extraction, automated inference, machine translation, chatbots, etc. We will use several natural language processing toolkits and libraries. : 3
ISTA456 - Text Retrieval and Web Search : Most of the web data today consists of unstructured text. Of course, the fact that this data exists is irrelevant, unless it is made available such that users can quickly find information that is relevant for their needs. This course will cover the fundamental knowledge necessary to build such systems, such as web crawling, index construction and compression, boolean, vector-based, and probabilistic retrieval models, text classification and clustering, link analysis algorithms such as PageRank, and computational advertising. The students will also complete one programming project, in which they will construct one complex application that combines multiple algorithms into a system that solves real-world problems. : 3
ISTA457 - Neural Networks : Neural networks are a branch of machine learning that combines a large number of simple computational units to allow computers to learn from and generalize over complex patterns in data. Students in this course will learn how to train and optimize feed forward, convolutional, and recurrent neural networks for tasks such as text classification, image recognition, and game playing. : 3
LIS470 - Database Management and Development : This course covers theory, methods, and techniques widely used to design and develop a relational database system and students will develop a broad understanding of modern database management systems. applications of fundamental database principles in a stand-alone database environment using MS Access and Windows are emphasized. Applications in an Internet environment will be discussed using MySQL in the Linux platform. : 3
