GAME425 - Algorithms for Games : Algorithms is a crucial component of game development. This course will provide students with an in-depth introduction to algorithm concepts for game development. The course will cover basic algorithm and data structures concepts, basic math concepts related to game algorithms, physics and artificial intelligence based game algorithms that are supplemented with modern examples. Unity Game Engine along with C# programming language will be used throughout the class. : 3
GAME451 - Game Development : This course provides a comprehensive survey of video game production practices. Students work on game development assignments for presentation in a professional portfolio. The course topics include: collaborative technologies, software design patterns for games, spatial transformations, and technical considerations surrounding game art, such as authoring sprites, 3D models, animations, texture mapping, and writing shaders. Students will be given periodic assignments that reinforce lessons from class. : 3
ISTA303 - Introduction to Creative Coding : While the 20th Century saw the rise of the knowledge worker and the information worker, the 21st Century has ushered in the era of the creative professional. Our society is being rapidly transformed by new technologies that are revolutionizing many spheres of life, from entrepreneurship to artistic production. This course provides an introduction to software and hardware packages that are spurring innovation and creativity. Students will explore rapid prototyping, object design, and physical computing using Computer-Aided Design Software, 3D printing technology, and Arduino circuit boards. The Processing programming language will be introduced in this course and used to create generative artworks in both visual and audio idioms. An overview of creative evolutionary computation will survey applications of genetic algorithms and artificial intelligence for creating art. : 3
ISTA320 - Applied Data Visualization : This course will introduce students to the fundamental concepts and tools used to convey the information contained within large, complex data sets through a variety of visualization techniques. Students will learn the fundamentals of data exploration data via visualizations, how to manipulate and reshape data to make it suitable for visualization, and how to prepare everything from simple single-variable visualizations to large multi-tiered and interactive visualizations. Visualization theory will be presented alongside the technical aspect of the course to develop a holistic understanding of the topic. : 3
ISTA330 - Advanced Web Design : This course will provide a comprehensive introduction to web application development, covering JavaScript, front-end development using React/Angular, back-end development using JavaScript based platforms, relational and NoSQL databases and fundamentals of DevOps. : 3
ISTA350 - Programming for Informatics Applications : This course will provide an introduction to informatics application programming using the python programming language and applying statistical concepts from a first semester statistics course. A key goal of this course is to prepare students for upper division ISTA courses by expanding on the skills gained in ISTA 116 and 130 but will be broadly applicable to any informatics discipline. Throughout the semester students will be faced with information application problems drawn from several different disciplines in order to expand their breadth of experience while simultaneously increasing their depth of knowledge of scientific and informatics programming methods. Students will practice problem decomposition and abstraction, gaining experience in identifying commonly occurring information processing issues and in applying well-known solutions. In addition, students will design their own algorithmic solutions to problems and will learn how to effectively compare different solutions, evaluating efficiency in order to choose the best solution for a given problem. Periodic code reviews will be held in order to expose students to a range of different solution methods, which will aid them in discovering weaknesses in their own work and will improve their ability to communicate with others on technical topics. The course will include an introduction to the python scientific computing libraries and other statistical packages. Additional course topics will include the use of version control systems, software profiling, general software engineering practices and basic shell scripting. : 4
ISTA403 - Creative Coding : This course continues the exploration of creative coding that began in ISTA 303. Students will develop experimental and creative works based, in part, on techniques from the fields of human-computer interaction, computer vision, virtual reality, machine learning, and other disciplines that have the potential to impact our culture through the introduction of new technologies. Aside from gaining technical proficiencies needed to engage with these topics (e.g., software engineering, physical computing techniques, familiarity with multimedia packages and libraries), students will have the opportunity to explore the use of novel interaction devices (e.g., Kinect, Wii, LeapMotion, Glasses, and Oculus Rift) as well as to experiment with a range of digital media environments (e.g., projection mapping, live coding, sonification, mobile devices, physical sensors,augmented reality, immersive systems). Moreover, students will become more familiar with the history and current state of the fields of new media art and creative coding. Students will read widely from journal articles and from media arts conference and festival proceedings, and will be expected to document their own work in a clear, professional manner, both through writing assignments and the creation of an online portfolio of creative projects. By the end of this course students will have the ability to participate meaningfully (through the implementation and documentation of creative projects) in contemporary discourse regarding art and technology. : 3
ISTA416 - Introduction to Human Computer Interaction : The field of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) encompasses the design, implementation, and evaluation of interactive computing systems. This course will provide a survey of HCI theory and practice. The course will address the presentation of information and the design of interaction from a human-centered perspective, looking at relevant perceptive, cognitive, and social factors influencing in the design process. It will motivate practical design guidelines for information presentation through Gestalt theory and studies of consistency, memory, and interpretation. Technological concerns will be examined that include interaction styles, devices, constraints, affordances, and metaphors. Theories, principles and design guidelines will be surveyed for both classical and emerging interaction paradigms, with case studies from practical application scenarios. As a central theme, the course will promote the processes of usability engineering, introducing the concepts of participatory design, requirements analysis, rapid prototyping, iterative development, and user evaluation. Both quantitative and qualitative evaluation strategies will be discussed. This course is co-convened: Upper-level undergraduates and graduate students are encouraged to enroll. Graduate students will be expected to complete more substantial projects and will be given more in-depth reading assignments. : 3
ISTA424 - Virtual Reality : Virtual reality is an emerging technology that has been widely used in recent years in various areas, such as education, training, well-being, and entertainment. Virtual reality offers a highly immersive experience as the head mounted displays replace the vision of the users with digital imagery. It encompasses many disciplines, such as computer science, human computer interaction, game design and development, information science, and psychology. This course merges a theoretical and practical approach to give students the necessary knowledge to design, develop, and critique virtual reality games and applications. : 3
ISTA495 - Special Topics in Information Science, Technology, and Arts : Special topics courses are offered to allow students to explore specialized topics not covered in the program curriculum. Multiple topics might be offered in any given year, and specialized topic descriptions will be advertised by the School for students interested in enrolling in the course. A specific course syllabus will be published prior to the offer of a special topic course. : 1
